20:57 <brent> zakim, start the meeting
20:57 <Zakim> RRSAgent, make logs Public
20:57 <Zakim> please title this meeting ("meeting: ..."), brent
20:57 <RRSAgent> I have made the request, Zakim
20:57 <brent> meeting: Verifiable Credentials Working Group Teleconference
20:57 <brent> chair: Brent
20:57 <brent> present+
20:58 *** cabernet (~cabernet@c080ddbb.public.cloak) has joined the channel
20:58 <cabernet> present+
21:01 *** decentralgabe (~decentralgabe@c080ddbb.public.cloak) has joined the channel
21:01 <decentralgabe> present+
21:01 <selfissued_> present+
21:01 <pauld_gs1> present+
21:02 <DavidC> present+
21:02 <GregB> present+
21:02 <manu> present+
21:02 *** cabernet_ (~cabernet@c080ddbb.public.cloak) has joined the channel
21:02 <dlongley> present+
21:02 *** TallTed (~Thud@c080ddbb.public.cloak) has joined the channel
21:02 <cabernet_> present+
21:04 <dlehn> present+
21:04 <GregB> scribe+
21:04 <GregB> Last VC meeting of 2023
21:05 *** pdl_asu (~pdl_asu@c080ddbb.public.cloak) has joined the channel
21:05 <GregB> Goals for this meeting: insure coarse of action for each outstanding before CR issue.
21:05 <TallTed> present+
21:05 * dlongley remember when scribing to type the person's name  (IRC nick) that's speaking followed by a colon... such as: "brent: We can go to the group and propose"
21:05 *** cabernet (~cabernet@c080ddbb.public.cloak) has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
21:05 <GregB> brent: Said those things not GregB...
21:05 <manu> q+
21:05 * Zakim sees manu on the speaker queue
21:06 <dlongley> s/Goals for this/brent: Goals for this/
21:06 <brent> ack manu
21:06 * Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
21:06 <dlongley> s/Last VC meeting/brent: Last VC meeting/
21:06 <GregB> manu: two topics maintainers for did reg. TAG review status
21:06 <dlongley> s/brent: Said those things not GregB...//
21:06 <brent> Topic: Maintainers
21:06 <manu> Seeking maintainers for DID Spec Registries and VC Spec Directory: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2023Dec/0055.html
21:06 <GregB> manu: seeking maintainers for DID/Spec registeries...
21:07 <brent> Topic: TAG Review VCDM
21:07 <GregB> manu: TAG review VC Data Model 2.0
21:07 <manu> TAG Review VCDM v2.0: https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/860#issuecomment-1856254791
21:07 <GregB> manu: Nothing major in the TAG review.
21:07 <manu> TAG Review Response: https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/860#issuecomment-1865010224
21:08 <GregB> manu: tried to address number of issues they brought up.
21:08 <GregB> manu: was trying to be timely in response.
21:08 <GregB> brent: any comments?
21:08 *** andres (~andres@c080ddbb.public.cloak) has joined the channel
21:08 <brent> Topic: Work Item status updates/PRs
21:08 <andres> present+
21:08 <GregB> brent: work item status/PRs
21:09 <selfissued_> q+
21:09 * Zakim sees selfissued_ on the speaker queue
21:09 <brent> ack selfissued_
21:09 * Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
21:09 <GregB> selfissued: Only two PRs left for VC JOSE/COSE
21:09 <GregB> selfissued: would like to close one on this call...
21:10 <GregB> brent: continue in depth
21:10 <selfissued_> https://github.com/w3c/vc-jose-cose/pulls
21:10 <selfissued_> https://github.com/w3c/vc-jose-cose/pull/190
21:10 <brent> subtopic: https://github.com/w3c/vc-jose-cose/pull/190
21:11 <GregB> selfissued: PR190, verification algorithm effort, has been reviewed. TallTed made suggestions.
21:11 <GregB> selfissued: Jeff A. "said this is what it was hoping for".
21:12 <GregB> brent: Just want Ivan's script to run first...
21:12 <DavidC> q+
21:12 * Zakim sees DavidC on the speaker queue
21:12 <brent> ack DavidC
21:12 * Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
21:12 <GregB> selfissued: Can the mintues show we want to merge 190.
21:13 <GregB> DavidChadwick: details on PR... Question: on key revocation, key status...
21:13 <GregB> selfissued: Short answer no. You might want to file an issue on that. Seems orthogonal.
21:14 <GregB> DavidChadwick: PR refers to the key and trust. Important to say something...
21:14 <GregB> selfissued: important to making progress. Do you want to propose text?
21:15 <GregB> DavidChadwick: will raise an issue.
21:15 <GregB> brent: no one opposed to merge.
21:15 <selfissued_> https://github.com/w3c/vc-jose-cose/pull/186
21:15 <brent> subtopic: https://github.com/w3c/vc-jose-cose/pull/186
21:16 <GregB> selfissued: PR 186. Objections from me and Manu. It wants to pull out media types. Chose these as a working group. Could they be changed in future.
21:16 <manu> q+
21:16 * Zakim sees manu on the speaker queue
21:16 <brent> q+
21:16 * Zakim sees manu, brent on the speaker queue
21:16 <GregB> selfissued: Would like to move this to post CR status.
21:16 <brent> ack manu
21:16 * Zakim sees brent on the speaker queue
21:16 <GregB> manu: +1 to what Mike said.
21:17 * dlongley is this the same issue that Ted planned to raise an alternative PR for ... does anyone remember? i don't see any minutes in the PR about it.
21:17 <brent> ack brent
21:17 * Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
21:17 <GregB> selfissued: two related issues from this PR. Will mark as post CR.
21:18 <GregB> brent: In light of those issues do we need to keep this PR open.
21:18 <GregB> brent: Would it be best to just close this PR?
21:18 <GregB> selfissued: Very good.
21:19 <DavidC> q+
21:19 * Zakim sees DavidC on the speaker queue
21:19 <GregB> selfissued: observation, once merge/close PR. Have zero before CR. Should be in position to move to CR.
21:19 <manu> q+
21:19 * Zakim sees DavidC, manu on the speaker queue
21:19 <brent> ack DavidC
21:19 * Zakim sees manu on the speaker queue
21:19 <GregB> selfissued: Would like to move.
21:20 <GregB> DavidC: would like to raise about the title of the document
21:20 <GregB> DavidC: there is an issue about selective disclosure. There is a IETF SD-JWT doc that doesn't apply to VCs
21:21 <GregB> DavidC: Don't have SD in the title.
21:21 <selfissued_> q+
21:21 * Zakim sees manu, selfissued_ on the speaker queue
21:21 <brent> ack manu
21:21 * Zakim sees selfissued_ on the speaker queue
21:21 <GregB> DavidC: How would people know it supports SD.
21:21 <GregB> manu: Where are we on controller doc stuff?
21:22 <GregB> manu: Are we waiting on controller document stuff to move into CR
21:22 <GregB> manu: Normative versus Non-normative, Who's read the spec?
21:22 <brent> ack selfissued_
21:22 * Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
21:23 <selfissued_> https://github.com/w3c/vc-jose-cose/issues/191
21:24 <GregB> selfissued: Doc title--simple general titles better than longer titles, example VC DI. Similarly don't want the title more complicated.
21:24 <DavidC> q+
21:24 * Zakim sees DavidC on the speaker queue
21:24 <GregB> selfissued: Who's read -- I've done a full pass, I'm comfortable that the normative text is correct.
21:25 <GregB> selfissued: controller doc: my understanding for DI weren't going to do the Controller Doc work till after CR. Then work with Manu.
21:25 <manu> q+
21:25 * Zakim sees DavidC, manu on the speaker queue
21:25 <brent> ack DavidC
21:25 * Zakim sees manu on the speaker queue
21:26 <decentralgabe> I've read it too :)
21:26 <GregB> DavidC: I've read various versions of the document at various times. Each time raised issues. I need to do a read now.
21:26 <GregB> DavidC: Already have a issue that selective disclosure not well defined.
21:26 <brent> ack manu
21:26 * Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
21:27 <GregB> manu: Have we responded to the PINGs review, same for TAG review
21:27 <decentralgabe> q+
21:27 * Zakim sees decentralgabe on the speaker queue
21:27 <GregB> selfissued: I don't know. Worked on it at the time at TPAC.
21:27 <brent> ack decentralgabe
21:27 * Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
21:27 <decentralgabe> https://github.com/w3c/vc-jose-cose/issues/192
21:28 <GregB> gabe: PING review one issue. Mike responded. Doesn't look like it has substantive changes
21:28 <selfissued_> q+
21:28 * Zakim sees selfissued_ on the speaker queue
21:28 <GregB> brent: might be premature to go into CR at this time.
21:28 <brent> ack selfissued_
21:28 * Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
21:30 <GregB> q+
21:30 * Zakim sees GregB on the speaker queue
21:30 <brent> ack GregB
21:30 * Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
21:30 <manu> scribe+
21:30 * manu :)
21:31 <selfissued_> q+
21:31 * Zakim sees selfissued_ on the speaker queue
21:31 <manu> GregB: on vc-di-bbs, we have put in review requests for horizontal review to a11y, i18n, security, privacy, and TAG. We have closed most of the "ancient" issues. We've incorporated a maintainer that hadn't been there. Security and privacy sections ahve been updated. Privacy section is quite thorough on unlinkability properties... David Waite had one item that he wanted to have said, we're trying to catch this up w/ the other suits.
21:31 <brent> ack selfissued_
21:31 * Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
21:32 <manu> q+
21:32 * Zakim sees manu on the speaker queue
21:33 <brent> ack manu
21:33 * Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
21:33 <GregB> manu: special topic call yesterday, processed all VC data model PRs. Please provide feedback ASAP. All pre CR issues.
21:34 <GregB> manu: for DI spec have not pulled in all items. Will need to go through another CR.
21:34 <GregB> manu: Bitstring status will try to drive to CR in Feb
21:36 <GregB> brent: Before CR PRs don't gain concensus. Then will look at issues and close or defer
21:36 <brent> Topic: Issue Discussion
21:36 * manu likes the "hanging axe" approach brent just mentioned :)
21:36 <brent> https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Abefore-CR+sort%3Aupdated-asc
21:37 <brent> subtopic: https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1337
21:37 *** DavidC_ (~DavidC@c080ddbb.public.cloak) has joined the channel
21:37 <DavidC_> present+
21:37 <GregB> brent: 1337 Define Alg for Verify. Main PR has been merged. I will close after call today.
21:37 <brent> subtopic: https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1365
21:38 <GregB> brent: 1365 Clarify section on VC graph. Has PR 1390. Status: wide array of approvals, some ed.  Most likely to be merged soon. Then will close.
21:38 <brent> subtopic: https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1384
21:39 *** DavidC (~DavidC@c080ddbb.public.cloak) has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
21:39 <GregB> brent: 1384 Ext to problems details object. PR 1391 addresses it. Wide array of approvals and a few eds. Expect to be merged soon, once merged will be closed
21:40 <brent> subtopic: https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1386
21:41 <GregB> brent: 1386 Important to validate issuer, Oliver Terbu issuer validation; Open PR, not clearly on a path towards concensus
21:41 <manu> q+
21:41 * Zakim sees manu on the speaker queue
21:41 <GregB> brent: not clear that is isn't going to happen.
21:41 <brent> ack manu
21:41 * Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
21:41 <GregB> manu: Mike the change you want. Is that proof needs to be removed by the alg.
21:41 * andres apologizes because he has to step out. Is excited about getting close to the finish line!
21:42 <GregB> manu: The way DI works is that proof options are secured too
21:42 <dlongley> q+ to say that envelopes are different from embedded proofs
21:42 * Zakim sees dlongley on the speaker queue
21:42 <GregB> selfissued: don't want to return JWS parameters and proof?
21:42 <GregB> manu: any info that is secured gets returned back
21:42 <DavidC_> q+
21:42 * Zakim sees dlongley, DavidC_ on the speaker queue
21:42 <GregB> manu: might get us back into layer violation teritory
21:43 <brent> ack dlongley
21:43 <Zakim> dlongley, you wanted to say that envelopes are different from embedded proofs
21:43 * Zakim sees DavidC_ on the speaker queue
21:43 <selfissued_> q+
21:43 * Zakim sees DavidC_, selfissued_ on the speaker queue
21:43 <brent> ack DavidC_
21:43 * Zakim sees selfissued_ on the speaker queue
21:43 <GregB> dlongley: We do have two different types of mechanisms (i) envelopes and (ii) embedded proofs. These do behave differently.
21:44 <GregB> DavidC: Take a credential -> VC -> credential you don't have the proof.
21:44 <brent> ack selfissued_
21:44 * Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
21:44 <manu> q+
21:44 * Zakim sees manu on the speaker queue
21:45 <dlongley> q+ to say that i think that embedded mechanisms can do either of these -- and if we want to clearly say that you can ask for either, that's fine
21:45 * Zakim sees manu, dlongley on the speaker queue
21:45 <GregB> selfissued: Aligned with DavidC. More of a layer violation if you get different result
21:45 <GregB> selfissued: request to David a change to PR asking for this
21:45 <brent> ack manu
21:45 * Zakim sees dlongley on the speaker queue
21:46 <GregB> manu: This PR is about issuer validation, the thing you are requesting is something else
21:46 <GregB> manu: Doesn't have to do with proof being returned.
21:46 <brent> ack dlongley
21:46 <Zakim> dlongley, you wanted to say that i think that embedded mechanisms can do either of these -- and if we want to clearly say that you can ask for either, that's fine
21:46 * Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
21:47 <GregB> dlongley: Okay to return proof. Valuable to implementers. Considerations for multi-proof. And digital wallets.
21:47 <GregB> brent: encourage to the PR and what its trying to request.
21:47 <selfissued_> q+
21:47 * Zakim sees selfissued_ on the speaker queue
21:48 <brent> ack selfissued_
21:48 * Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
21:48 <DavidC_> I have submitted issue #1399
21:48 <dlongley> `proof` is *in the credential*, that's what embedding is though.
21:48 *** andres (~andres@c080ddbb.public.cloak) has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
21:49 <GregB> selfissued: it is not independent. See the text of the PR. This interface returns information in the credential.
21:49 <manu> q+
21:49 * Zakim sees manu on the speaker queue
21:49 <manu> q-
21:49 * Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
21:49 <brent> ack manu
21:49 * Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
21:49 <brent> subtopic: https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1398
21:49 <manu> q+
21:49 * Zakim sees manu on the speaker queue
21:50 <GregB> brent: Issue 1398 credential status id field is optional. Required id property not necessary.
21:50 <manu> q-
21:50 * Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
21:50 <GregB> manu: I'll raise the PR. Its fairly straightforward.
21:50 * dlongley think positive!
21:50 * TallTed makes a note to find controversy...
21:50 <brent> subtopic: https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1388
21:51 <manu> q+
21:51 * Zakim sees manu on the speaker queue
21:51 <selfissued_> q+
21:51 * Zakim sees manu, selfissued_ on the speaker queue
21:51 <GregB> brent: Issue 1388 Specify what kind of processing is safe on a returned document PR 1392 has been raised. PR has requested changes
21:51 <brent> ack manu
21:51 * Zakim sees selfissued_ on the speaker queue
21:52 <GregB> manu: Mike is requesting changes since text is not actionable. Need to hear from Jeffery.
21:52 <brent> ack selfissued_
21:52 * Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
21:52 <manu> q+
21:52 * Zakim sees manu on the speaker queue
21:52 <GregB> selfissued: Yeah, I kinda agree with Manu's assesment. I'm fine if we develop concrete text.
21:52 * dlongley has to drop a bit early today ... merry christmas / happy holidays to all and see you in the new year!
21:53 <brent> ack manu
21:53 * Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
21:53 <GregB> manu: One thing to note is this text is for specification authors. Guidance to specification authors on what is a acceptable cryptosuite.
21:54 <brent> subtopic: https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1377
21:54 <selfissued_> PR 1397 is also about this
21:54 <GregB> brent: Issue 1377 a number of PRs 1393, 1394. 1394 has a number of approvals. Though some comments. 1393 not as clear. Already discussed
21:55 <GregB> brent: a number of PRs are in a good place likely to be merged soon. Some are not. PRs would be closed and issues closed or deferred
21:55 <selfissued_> q+
21:55 * Zakim sees selfissued_ on the speaker queue
21:56 <GregB> brent: Expressing gratitude to all
21:56 <manu> Yes, thank you to everyone for the work and passion they've put into the work! Happy Holidays! Happy New Year! :)
21:56 *** decentralgabe (~decentralgabe@c080ddbb.public.cloak) has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
21:56 <pdl_asu> +1 to Brent's expression of thankfulness ;-)
21:56 <brent> ack selfissued_
21:56 * Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
21:56 <DavidC_> +1
21:57 <brent> zakim, who is here?
21:57 <Zakim> Present: brent, cabernet, decentralgabe, selfissued_, pauld_gs, DavidC, GregB, manu, dlongley, cabernet_, dlehn, TallTed, andres, DavidC_
21:57 <Zakim> On IRC I see TallTed, cabernet_, pauld_gs1, selfissued_, RRSAgent, Zakim, brent, dlehn, enick_708, cel, AnthonySpencer, jyasskin, manu, Github, npd, bumblefudge1, seabass,
21:57 <Zakim> ... MojGraph, saysaywhat, bumblefudge, ounfacdo, cel[m], joraboi445, SintayewGashaw, cel[h], w3c_modbot, ivan, rbyers, dlongley, hadleybeeman, stenr, shigeya, bigbluehat, csarven,
21:57 <Zakim> ... rhiaro
21:57 <brent> zakim, close the meeting
21:57 <Zakim> I don't understand 'close the meeting', brent
21:57 <TallTed> RRSAgent, draft minutes
21:57 <brent> zakim, end the meeting
21:57 <Zakim> As of this point the attendees have been brent, cabernet, decentralgabe, selfissued_, pauld_gs, DavidC, GregB, manu, dlongley, cabernet_, dlehn, TallTed, andres, DavidC_
21:57 *** cabernet_ (~cabernet@c080ddbb.public.cloak) has quit ("Page closed")
21:57 <Zakim> RRSAgent, please draft minutes
21:57 <brent> rrsagent, bye
21:57 <Zakim> I am happy to have been of service, brent; please remember to excuse RRSAgent.  Goodbye
21:57 <RRSAgent> I have made the request to generate https://www.w3.org/2023/12/20-vcwg-minutes.html TallTed
21:57 <TallTed> RRSAgent, make logs public
21:57 *** Zakim (zakim@6492c3ce.team.cloak) has left the channel
21:57 <RRSAgent> I have made the request to generate https://www.w3.org/2023/12/20-vcwg-minutes.html Zakim
21:57 <RRSAgent> I see no action items
21:57 *** RRSAgent (rrsagent@6492c3ce.team.cloak) has left the channel
21:57 <RRSAgent> I have made the request, TallTed
